templates/README.md, before:

# *Project*

- *Change all emphasized texts*
- *Delete unused sections*
- *Use `code formating`*
- *Replace `org` and `proj` in badges link with respective slugs*

![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/org/proj)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Conventional Commits](https://img.shields.io/badge/Conventional%20Commits-1.0.0-yellow.svg)](https://conventionalcommits.org)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/org/proj)
![GitHub tag (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/org/proj)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/org/proj)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/org/proj)

*A concise description of the project specifically.*

**The project is under active development.**

## Features

*Features. Demos and visuals - images, animations, and videos are highly encouraged.*

## Usage

*Usage examples.*

```shell
# ...
```

### Installation and Configuration

*Installation and configuration guidance.*

```shell
# Installation steps
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

*State you are open to contributions and its requirements.*

### Development

*Development stack and tooling.*

### Testing

*Testing stack and how to run tests.*

### Operations

*Operations.*

## Contact

*Contacts.*

### Troubleshooting and Support

*Troubleshooting and preferred ways of providing support.*

## Todo list

*Todo list.*

## Roadmap

*Roadmap.*

## Known Bugs

*Known Bugs.*

## Credits and Acknowledgments

- [Name Surname](https://example.com/) - author
- *Appreciation of other contributors is welcome*

## Copyright and Licensing

- [License Name](MIT-LICENSE)
- Copyright © YEAR Subject

## Changelog and News

- [Changelog](../CHANGELOG.md)
- *List other important or interesting news here*

## Notes and References

### Dependencies

*List dependencies here, or delete the section, if none.*

- [Web: Page](https://example.com/) - the preferred way of referencing
- [Web Page Title](https://example.com/) - also OK
- [GitHub - xebis/repository-template: Well-manageable and well-maintainable repository template.](https://github.com/xebis/repository-template)

### Recommendations

*List recommended references here, or delete the section.*

- [Shields.io: Quality metadata badges for open source projects](https://shields.io/)

### Suggestions

*List suggested references here, or delete the section.*

- [readme.so: Easiest Way to Create A README](https://readme.so/)

### Further Reading

*List further reading links here, or delete the section.*

- [Wikipedia: README](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/README)
- [Make a README: Because no one can read your mind (yet)](https://www.makeareadme.com/)

Commit message:

feat: add contributing and code of conduct

templates/README.md, after:

# *Project*

- *Change all emphasized texts*
- *Delete unused sections*
- *Use `code formating`*
- *Replace `org` and `proj` in badges link with respective slugs*

![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/org/proj)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Conventional Commits](https://img.shields.io/badge/Conventional%20Commits-1.0.0-yellow.svg)](https://conventionalcommits.org)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/org/proj)
![GitHub tag (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/org/proj)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/org/proj)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/org/proj)

*A concise description of the project specifically.*

**The project is under active development.**

## Features

*Features. Demos and visuals - images, animations, and videos are highly encouraged.*

## Usage

*Usage examples.*

```shell
# ...
```

### Installation and Configuration

*Installation and configuration guidance.*

```shell
# Installation steps
```

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting merge requests to us.

### Development

*Development stack and tooling.*

### Testing

*Testing stack and how to run tests.*

### Operations

*Operations.*

## Contact

*Contacts.*

### Troubleshooting and Support

*Troubleshooting and preferred ways of providing support.*

## Todo list

*Todo list.*

## Roadmap

*Roadmap.*

## Known Bugs

*Known Bugs.*

## Credits and Acknowledgments

- [Name Surname](https://example.com/) - author
- *Appreciation of other contributors is welcome*

## Copyright and Licensing

- [License Name](MIT-LICENSE)
- Copyright © YEAR Subject

## Changelog and News

- [Changelog](../CHANGELOG.md)
- *List other important or interesting news here*

## Notes and References

### Dependencies

*List dependencies here, or delete the section, if none.*

- [Web: Page](https://example.com/) - the preferred way of referencing
- [Web Page Title](https://example.com/) - also OK
- [GitHub - xebis/repository-template: Well-manageable and well-maintainable repository template.](https://github.com/xebis/repository-template)

### Recommendations

*List recommended references here, or delete the section.*

- [Shields.io: Quality metadata badges for open source projects](https://shields.io/)

### Suggestions

*List suggested references here, or delete the section.*

- [readme.so: Easiest Way to Create A README](https://readme.so/)

### Further Reading

*List further reading links here, or delete the section.*

- [Wikipedia: README](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/README)
- [Make a README: Because no one can read your mind (yet)](https://www.makeareadme.com/)
